Welcome to the Life Church Podcast.
We are an act 242 community, a family on a mission to bring a life of Jesus to warrington.
We hope you are ready to hear what God has to say to you today through his word and by his spirit.
Let me read to you some scripture.
We are...
Taking a very brief look at the life of the shepherds
As IK and I, we didn't coordinate this morning, but you felt that scripture impressed upon your heart.
And that is the scripture we have for today. Look how the Lord works. It's amazing, isn't it?
So Luke chapter 2 verse 8 says this:
And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby,
Keeping watch over their flocks at night.
An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them.
And they were terrified.
But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid. I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all the people.
Today in the town of David a Savior has been born to you.
He is the Messiah, the Lord.
And this will be a sign to you will find a baby wrapped in clothes and lying in a manger
Suddenly a great company of the heavenly hosts also appeared with the angel, praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest heaven and on earth, peace to those who move.
Using the Lord's favor rests.
And when the angels had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Go away.
Let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing that's happened.
14, which the Lord has told us about. So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph and the baby who was lying in the manger. 15, 16
And when they had seen him, they spread the word concerning him.
And they had been telling about this child, and all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds said to them.
But Mary treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart.
The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen.
Which were just as they had been told.
So the story covers
The first evangelists of the good news.
These weren't trained theologians, these were not ordained clergy, men or women, these were not people who had been through some synagogue rehearsal or
of how to deliver oratory and...
Talk about God. these were shepherds, and not just shepherds. in the daytime, these were shepherds pulling a night shift.
They were watching over the flocks at night
I have no grounds to prove this but i would imagine if people's humanity back then was the same as now you would probably get the top shepherds on the day shift and the
And the undershep is on the night shift because
Who wants to pull a night shift
So my theory is that these just weren't any old shepherds. These were the lowest of all the shepherds, maybe the trainee shepherds or back in my day, the YTS.
Shepherds,
who were pulling a knight.
Shift,
And then...
Something amazing happens
They are the ones that God highlights as his own.
Chosen instruments to proclaim the gospel. My first point is this.
God sees us and he values us
Even when other people might not properly value or acknowledge us.
There are times in our lives when we may feel naturally overlooked.
Like our lives aren't amounting to much like we haven't got a great deal to contribute.
Maybe we look at those who serve alongside us and we feel inferior to them.
Even though I would consider myself
Relatively confident as a person
There are times when I feel that,
my gifting isn't as good as somebody else's somebody else could do the job better than me.
We all go through times when we feel that maybe we deserve to be overlooked and we feel unseen.
But God chose these people.
Who were the least of us
To be the first among us to proclaim the good news.
Now, on Wednesday,
Just gone. We had a carol service. Show me a hand if you managed to go to the carol. Did you like it?
Would you like another one?
Good okay i'll feed that back to the rest of the steering team
Well, there's this part of a...
conference or a event that you may be involved in when you're leading it and you get to put on one of these.
Access all areas.
There were only about five or six of these available at the...
And I got to wear one.
And it comes out the little box along with all of the other lanyards saying other things and you get to put it on like this
And you feel very important.
now the thing was about the event we did on wednesday there wasn't actually anywhere to go that nobody else could go.
So I put this on myself thinking great I have access all areas.
And then I thought, what areas do I want to access?
Well, the main stadium, everybody can go in there. Going and buying an overpriced hot dog, anyone can go and do that.
Standing in the foyer,
with a lanyard and a fluorescent jacket. Well, there were lots of other people doing that. So I was wearing this lanyard telling me that I ought to feel important when actually I couldn't do that.
I couldn't do anything important at all. I was just like everybody else. Yeah.
but actually what Jesus does when he wants to include us in our
His plans include us,
He gives us an access to all areas.
Now, I'm not going to be able to pick out anybody in here who might feel like they're the least of us.
But i'm gonna pick out someone very humble so now come here
You are a very humble man.
it comes down forward you're only going to be up here for 10 seconds
When God includes people, he includes everyone.
The gospel isn't for the...
Most educated and this that and the other although it's an at is very educated i used to not
You study philosophy?
Yes.
And what he does is he gives
Access all areas
To anybody who wants to be involved.
You can go and sit down now, sir. Enjoy your lanyard. You can keep that. I've got...
A few stored up in my cupboard.
For posterity.
God gives us access all areas.
The second thing I believe that this story can teach us is
Is this
Even in our secular work, there can be things about our lives that bear witness to God that we don't realize.
Psalm 121 says this, I lift up my eyes to the mountains. Where does my help come from?
My help comes from the Lord.
The maker of heaven and earth.
He will not let your foot slip
He who watches over you will not slumber.
Indeed, he who watches over Israel
When the will neither slumber
10. Nor sleep. The Lord watches over you. The Lord is your shade at your right hand. The sun will not harm you by day nor the moon at night. The Lord will keep you from all harm he will.
He will watch over your life.
The Lord will watch over your coming and going both now and forevermore.
"'Why did I choose Psalm 121?' Well, in that psalm, it describes a God who never slumbers nor sleeps. He's on 24 hours, 12 hours, 12 hours, 12 hours, 12 hours, 12 hours,
for our watch over his people.
And those shepherds, even though they didn't realize it, they were enacting out in their...
1. Vocation.
What God does for his people in their night shift, watching over the flock at night, they were living out.
the character of God. And there are times in our own lives when we feel that the business of ministry is done by those people like Sanat who get to wear and access all areas bad.
various batch.
But this story reminds us that there are times when we're just going about our daily lives
turning up to work, clocking in, doing what we're called to do, receiving our paycheck, paying bills, trying to raise our kids, etc. Have friends, all those things.
All those things. There can be things in our normal day-to-day life where we are acting out the character, the calling, and the story of God. Right?
So I would imagine that these shepherds went back to washing their sheep at night for many other nights to come, because that was their job.
But it reminds us that there are times in our lives we do not realize that God is using those daily activities to declare his name.
Storing.
And the third point is this.
I've said this at the beginning and I'm going to close with this here. These were God's...
First evangelists.
"Never limit the ministry or the moment that God might..."
call you into.
In all of our lives there are times that we prepare for and the times when we seem to have to respond to.
There are times when we just suddenly have to step up and there are times that we plan and look forward to. This was a moment that came upon them that they responded to.
and there can be times in our lives when god will just suddenly call us, like hold of us, identify us and equip us and send us.
So while we're not at the point where I can give you my 2026 sermon, like look ahead, new year, new moment,
Press into all the new things that God has got for you. What I would say to you is this, never ever limit what God can do through your life.
God can take anyone and everyone that he chooses to to make them a carrier of his message.
Close with this storing.
In the early 1970s there was a guy called Jim Cimbala.
And he was an ex basketball player.
He had no theological training,
but they had an opportunity to take over a church called the brooklyn.
Tabernacle.
And at that time
it had twenty people in it.
He had no theological training.
but he didn't want the church to close.
And for some years, him and his wife strive to try and get this church off the ground.
And then the lord said to me in one day he says why are you striving because this church will not be built by you it will be built by me and from that point on they decided to found the thing on
1. Prayer.
He had no theological training.
But he had a heart after God, he was ready and willing, and he chose to let God build his church.
That...
20 to 30 congregation church now carries a weekly attendance of 10, 10, 10, 10, 10,
Thousand people.
The Brooklyn Tabernacle Choir, which was started by his wife around this time, is now one of the most famous choirs in America.
And at Christmas time in New York, they are singing and declaring the good news.
i don't know if jim jim symbola now has a theological degree but it doesn't really matter.
Because
It's not a piece of paper that qualifies us, it's the word of the Lord that qualifies us.
Who God
Coals,
God
Equips.
So there my three points to you. I think we're within ten minutes, maybe even under nine.
Fifteen, liar,
Ha ha ha ha.
God sees us and values us.
Even secular work can bring attention to the story of God.
and never underestimate what God would do to you let's pray
Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word.
We thank you that these shepherds are a
An instruction to us and an inspiration.
They remind us that in the simplicity of our daily lives you can see, call, appoint, anoint and send.
And lord we want to be just like that ready and available that in the rhythm and the structure of our daily routines and lives and responsibilities that we
that we always remember the Lord we're ready to respond to the call of God.
to build your church and to let you do your thing through us.
We make ourselves available for all that is ahead.
In Jesus name
Uh...
Men.
We've come to the end of this week's message.
We hope you've been impacted and inspired.
Please keep up to date with everything that's happening by visiting our website at www.wiveturchborrington.com